Why do you think I, Rand is such a controversial figure.
Last time I spoke with you on this particular podcast, the,
the amount of emails I've gotten,
<laugh> a positive and negative and certainly negative.
I don't usually get negative emails. Yeah, but you, yeah, I can't,
I can't relate. What's I'm sure mine were positive, overwhelmingly positive. Uh,
it was mostly, uh, women sending pictures, uh,
for me to forward to you because you didn't send me anything. <laugh> I can I,
oh, it's the wrong email address. <laugh> sorry. I kept bouncing.
I send you to your, so this is love. <laugh> uh,
love hurts. Okay. Yeah, no I, but why do you think she's such a divisive figure?
Why do you think that she provokes such emotion in both the positive and the
negative side? I'd love to hear both of your viewpoints.
On this. Well, I think on the negative side,
in both on the positive and the negative side,
I think it's because she's radical, she's consistently radical.
She upends the, the, uh, premises,
the ideas that are prevalent in the culture that we're brought up on that, that,
that are like, you know, uh, they're like milk and, and, uh, and, and,
you know, the basic stuff that we're, we're growing up,
you have to be altruistic. You have to live other people.
That's just basic stuff. Nobody challenges that nobody questions it.
And if they do question it,
they usually question it from the perspective of a or a, a bad guy.
Right. You mentioned the, the joker right before we started. Right. You know,
I'm gonna upend the world because I don't care about other people. Right. So,
so they're presented with these two alternatives and it's real in people's
lives. Right?
You either live other people or you are evil sob. Um,
and you know, yeah. Most people, either one of those,
but the ethic is right here. It's, it's living for other people.
And when you challenge that, they have no way cognitive to go with that.
And the only place they can go with that cognitively is to the joker it's to the
evil guy. It's to somebody who wants to smash everything and destroy,
because they don't have this alternate conception of, oh, no,
you can be rational only self-interested. And that does not involve destruction.
And that does not involve E you know, the, uh, exploiting other people.
They can't conceptualize that it's not in their framework. Um,
so it's the fact that she's so consistently on the side of self-interest,
for example, on the side of capitalism, on the side of freedom, uh, it's the,
a fact that she dismisses faith to the extent that she does, or,
or to the extent that I do, right. That aliens people,
cuz that is completely different from what they brought up.
Now the flip side of that is it's also really interesting to some people.
So, you know, a lot of you got some positives, right? Um,
and I got a lot of positives in their appearance.
I know a lot of people came to my podcast because I appeared on your show. Why?
Because they hear something that's completely fresh, new, different.
They've never heard before it appeals to something in them that maybe, you know,
a lot of people say I read Iran and it confirmed everything.
I believed now for me, it didn't, it was the opposite.
It turned upside down everything I believe same here,
but there are a lot of people out there that who have a sense that something's
wrong in the world. That altruism is wrong. That socialism,
that just the stuff and, and religion is wrong,
but they don't have an alternative. It has.
And they listen to a lot of podcasts cuz they're trying to get ideas of what is
it, what is it that I'm sensing that's wrong out there.
And suddenly somebody comes out and gives them some clear explanation of things
and they go, wow, that's what I've been looking for my whole life.
So that's the positive for, for people. Um, you know, and I at IAnd,
it just all made sense. It all clicked and all in,
in E and it made clear that everything I believed to that point was just wrong.
It just didn't, it didn't integrate.
And I always knew to some extent it didn't integrate,
but there was no alternatives. I believed it. What, what else was there? I,
I remember saying to myself as a kid, probably 15, why should I, why is this,
why is morality all about other people? Why is that? Well,
that's just the way it is. Right. And, and I, and I couldn't,
couldn't come up with an explanation.
She gave me the explanation and she gave me the explanation,
why it's wrong to do that. And I think so. I think that's why people respond.
It's just too radical.
It can't fit into their cognitive framework that they're being brought up.
That they've been educated on that that just the whole life evolves.
Around. Luckily you don't bring up.
I Rand that much in conversation except as kind of references every once in a
while,
as part of the humor of just the general flow and the music of the way you like
to talk. Well,
why do you think you don't integrate her into your philosophy when
you're like it's explaining ideas and all those kinds of things?
Like why is she not, you know,
a popular reference point for discussion of ideas?
Because I, I, and I don't,
I don't know if everyone's gonna agree with or can't agree with me.
I think for a certain percentage of population,
actually I talked to someone from the Ironman Institute. I forgot his name,
older guy with glasses and he didn't disagree with me. He said,
this is changing. I said,
I think for a certain percentage of population who are uninformed about her work
higher than 10%, less than 50% you mention, I Rand,
they have been trained to think this is identical Scientology.
So as soon as her name comes up, it's like, okay, I'm out the door. I don't,
I'm not gonna have anything to do with this.
And everyone who follows her is a crazy person. That's one thing that I,
another thing is Rand in her, um,
personality was very aggressive and antagonistic.
She was for a long time, the lone voice and the wilderness being like this.
Isn't like, uh, you know,
like one of her big adversaries in a certain sense was Milton Friedman.
And she really hated Hal Milton Fridman was like, you know,
having rent control is inefficient and she's like inefficient,
we're talking about mass homelessness and people dying.
And you're talking about this, like what color tie goes with this color shirt?
Are you in? Like, and in fact, it's hilarious. Uh,
there was an organization called the foundation for economic education fee.
Leonard Reed was the head of this and there were a series of letters
and she was helping him. She was much more philosoph,
grounded in certain context than he was. And there was an essay, uh,
pamphlet that he published called roofs or ceilings. It was co by,
uh, Milton Friedman,
late later Nobel prize winner and George Stigler also later Nobel prize winner.
Yeah. And basically the argument was, well,
if the government controls all housing,
how's that gonna work out and she's sitting there and she's typing in all caps.
So, you know, she's holding on the shift team at.
Doing this.
On a type plate on a typewriter and, and being like how,
and you can imagine her with her cigarette holder apoplectic being like,
how is an organization ostensibly,
devoted to free enterprise discussing these,
this Stalinist idea in the most casual of terms. She's like,
have I taught you not?
And what's amazing is so I at fee they only have her letters
because she sent them to read the Iran Institute must have Leonard read letter
letters. Oh, we do. Yeah. I was able to knowing, ran enough,
predict exactly what the conversation would go like,
because he also did something she didn't approve of,
which is he asked other people for, uh, feedback on her work. And she goes,
I gave this to you to read, were you shopping around for some jerk that I don't,
I need their approval. What are you doing? So it was a very, uh,
interesting situation. But so that's one issue. I, oh.
Remember this is, I end when she's young, she was not young. So well,
relatively young. Right. It's it's before as sharp, it was before I,
so it's before she's super famous.
And before this is the fan HEADSS been published, but you know,
she's,
she's trying to work with others and they're disappointing her left
and right.
Yeah. So, and also when you are a,
what she takes away from bad people is you have these kids,
right. And you're gonna sit down with them and they're gonna be like, yeah,
I'm gonna take your guns. I'm gonna lock you in your house. Um,
I'm gonna take 60% of your income and all this other stuff.
And they might up to reading, ran. They might sit down and have a discussion.
And Rand goes, Hey, you know what? You don't even have to give them an answer.
You could say, go to hell. We're not having this conversation.
And you have no right to one second of my life.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and this is not a legitimate opener.
This is a declaration of war. This isn't like,
it's not like if I sit down with you Iran, I'm like, Hey, Ron,
here are my plans for your wife. <laugh> go to hell. Yeah.
This isn't a conversation we're having, oh,
I'm gonna make you unsafe in your house. What? This is not a discussion.
So what happens is these people who five minutes ago were able to have a debate
with kid, cuz people read random when they're young, often.
And now that kid is like, yeah, I'm not even talking to you. It's her fault.
Whereas in reality, it's that person's fault because that person had no right.
Although they've been trained to the contrary by our culture to believe, yeah,
I'm gonna sit down and we're just gonna equally have a discussion of your own's
life and you have one vote and I have one vote and we're gonna,
and no L has a vote and that's,
that's how it's gonna be flat and Rand's not having it. Yeah. Um,
so I think those are two issues and, and there's some other things which,
which I don't need to get into,
but I IC one of the things that Rand said consisting her life is
that her philosophy is an integrated whole, right.
So to be an objective is isn't just like, I like Atlas shrug.
It means I accept objective as a totality, since I do not.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I don't,
I think it is proper to be respectful to her wishes and not constantly be,
especially given that I have somewhat of a platform to be like iron ran Ironman
and ran because I don't think iron Rand would've liked it.
If I was talking about Iran this much.
So how do you, how do you deprogram? Cause I,
I don't like to bring up iron Rand just because I do see what, uh,
like how people roll their eyes essentially. So how do it's the upside?
You know what, what's the upside exactly. But what is that pro? Can we,
can you speak to that programming? I.
Think people have I'm programming people. I mean, look at the end of the day,
if you talk about the ideas and ideas, make sense,
and people attracted to the ideas and you say, oh, by the way,
and this came from mind, ran. That's how you deprogrammed them. Right.
If you make the ideas prevalent in the culture,
if people start viewing self-interest as something that's kind,
that's interesting and worthwhile in something with investigating.
And they said, oh, that came from Ironman. Then I think,
I think that then we'll,
we'll deprogram them and get them and get them changing their minds about these
things. And also, you know, going on shows where, uh,
people are gonna watch your show no matter who you bring on. Right. So, uh,
even though now you do, if you put iron,
you put Ironman in the title that me immediately reduces the number of people
who watch. So, so in the future, you should.
You put Michael mouse in the title and then at least the female population too.
Exactly. The female to, yeah, absolutely. Just to say that's right. But so,
so you go and you try to make them as credible,
as possible to as many people as possible over time, it takes time.
And ultimately, I don't think the culture will have this response to her.
They might still disagree with her,
but I think over time and already you're seeing it, younger people,
I think today are far less, there was a generation who never read iron,
ran and was like this being out the Golic and the crosses.
We don't wanna have anything to do with her then. And,
and I think today there are many more people who read her and might disagree or
not disagree. Right. And then there were a lot of people who haven't read her,
but who not, not opposed or willing to have an, to engage.
So I think it's changing already. And I think in 20 years it'll be.
Completely different.
And just two more things that she does that I think says that I think people
find very, very off putting, given our culture. One is she will basically,
you could sit down with Rand and be like,
your fear is not in any way a hold on my freedom. Just that one sentence.
And for a lot of people that's very off putting, uh, and very harsh.
It's correct. Mm-hmm <affirmative> but for them, it's just like, wait a minute.
I I'm still scared. It's I don't care. Like, for example,
like with lockdowns and things like this. Yeah. It's like, well,
I'm scared and maybe I have a right to be scared. Ah gotcha. Or like,
I'm scared that you have a gun in your house and it's like, I respect that.
You're scared. I don't care at the end. At the, as you say,
at the end of the day, this is my house. I'm going to live my life as I please,
as long as I don't hurt other people, well, you are hurting me cuz I'm scared.
No, that that's not, this is.
The feeling versus.
Fact. Yeah. Yeah. So that is one, uh, situation.
Just like a feeling versus freedom essentially where ran is that puts a lot of
people off. Um, I also think that historically,
a lot of people who were drawn to her are drawn to her for the wrong reasons.
That a lot of times like Howard Rourke, uh, the,
the hero we're gonna still stay hero.
Are you supposed to say protagonist spa hero? Yeah.
The hero of the fountain head, he's extremely intelligent,
but he's also extremely uncompromising.
What often ends up happening is you'll have a young kid who is somewhat
intelligent,
but then they pick up the personality and now you're someone I can't work with.
And then it's like, you're not Howard RO relax. You're not that skilled.
You're not that talented,
but because the character has to notification and have certain aspects together,
the,
when kids read that they're gonna might get the wrong idea and that's not rans
fault. And, and.
It's more than that. It's it's so, so I,
I can really agree with that, but it's, it's even broader than that. So,
so here is a, in my view, you know,
one of the geniuses of the millennium presenting a philosophy and she's got not
just a question in my view,
she's got the answers and you're reading them at 16 and you're reading the
answers. You don't know at 16, that this is true. Yeah. Yeah.
You might have a sense that it's true, but you don't have the life experience,
the learned experience. You don't have the fact, you don't have the knowledge,
you're picking up truth. It's just being absorbed. You're accepting. It is true,
but you don't know it's true.
And then you go out into the world advocating for it. Right. Which we all did.
Or at least I did when I was 16 and you're obnoxious.
You can't prove what you're arguing for. Yeah. Yeah.
Because you don't have the experience. It took me, I don't know, 10, 20 years,
probably 20 to figure out that I really do think she, what she said was true.
Right. But I didn't know when I was 16, when I was 16,
I just absorbed these ideas and accepted them in a sense, you know,
with some connection to reality, but in a sense on faith, right.
At least presented it that way. Um, and you, and, and,
and as a consequence, you come off as a detached from reality, obnoxious, uh,
human being, I think a lot of young objectives are,
and it's hard not to be because you are,
you're confronted with genius and you're not a genius.
I certainly am not a genius.
And I'm confronted with just genius and have all this information in my head.
Now I can't articulate it. And, and, and I, and it's hard to deal with yourself.
What, there's an inside.
Joke. No, you said confront a genius that point to us. Yeah. I mean.
I'm confronted with you guys. I'm,
I'm at an age where I know how to deal with geniuses. Um.
But I'm gonna, there's something else. This is not why people don't like her,
but there's something that the fountain head does, which I think is very, uh,
um, and I don't, I don't blame her, but it's, it's a bad consequence.
If you read the fountain fountain head and you're young and you're intelligent
and talented, the message at least I got,
and I know I'm not alone is you are going to think that you're gonna be a
pariah, that, uh, a lot of people are gonna be against you. And you're gonna,
you're basically doomed for a short period, right. Of being isolated and alone.
And that may have been the case when the fountain head was written.
But I think now with the internet and in my experience,
both as a youth and someone who's a little bit older, I didn't appreciate,
and you're not gonna get it from that book.
And you can't get it through that book, cuz it has to have a certain narrative.
How many people who are a little older are giddy when they find
young talent? Oh yeah. How inspiring it is, how exciting it is.
Like when you talk to these kids who are doing things on the internet or write
whatever achievement you want them to flourish, you don't,
you're not threatened by them as the antagonists of the fountain head are.
And that doesn't come through in the fountain head because of it depends.
On your profession. Right? I mean for,
so these parts of the world are better than others. If you're an,
if you're an artist, at least the way I can see Viv art, uh, and you,
you wanna go study art today. You're gonna be pooed and look down on and,
and so on. So, so yeah, I agree. I mean, and, and in my gen, when I read,
I went, you know, there was no internet. There was, and I was in Israel,
so we were isolated and there was nobody else who has shared their ideas.
And he did feel that kind of isolation and, and, but Royal gave you to me.
He didn't teach me about, you know,
you're gonna be isolated cuz partially it's cuz I wasn't
um, maybe I was, I was humble. Right.
<Laugh>.
When I, when I read Atlas shrug, I identified with Eddie Willis. Okay.
When I read Deon hit, I didn't identify.
With Howard work. You read the fountain head.
So I read Atlas when I was 16. I probably read at, uh,
found head when I was 16 and a half 17. Something like that. That is UN and I,
and I read, you read the.
Fountain head after Atlas shrug. Yeah. If anyone listening to this,
they should read, found head for,
if you read fountain head for me after Atlas shrug. No that is a war crime. No,
for me.
By the way, reading Atlas shrug was much you.
Out number it is more important.
But my point is I think the fountain head in many ways is redundant in certain
aspects.
If you read Atlas shrug first and because the found head is such a masterful
book and such a personal book. I.
Agree. I agree with, I agree with that. So.
Ideally you would read the found head. That's what I'm saying. Yes. Um, but,
and here's the other thing people don't appreciate. I'm sorry to interrupt you.
Uh, people think Rand's always about politics, politics, politic politics.
The found head is not a political book at all. It's about, well,
she talks about it. Politics man soul. Sure, sure. But it's about ethics.
How important everyone has to have a moral code.
That's the other thing why people find Randolph putting,
if you have young people who now find it very important to live a moral
life who are like, what does that mean? To have morality, to have ethics,
to live with integrity,
for people who have gotten a little older who have made these little sacrifices
who are like, I'm not gonna fight at work.
Do I really need to look for another job? Yeah. My wife's kind of, you know,
getting annoying, but am I gonna make a fight about it?
These little sacrifices that they make every day and big ones and big ones?
Oh absolutely. So when you have someone who's saying forcing you yep.
To look in the mirror and say those little sacrifices and bigs actually made you
did the wrong thing and you're evading that you betrayed your unconscious.
That to many people I think is very threatening.
But this is why so many people say that iron Rand is for 14 year old boys.
Yeah. Right, right. A lot of it.
And there's a reason why there's a reason why it appeals to to 14 is a little
young, but, but 16, 18. Yeah.
It's because those are the ages where we we're still open to ideally idealism in
a positive sense. Right. To, to, to beautiful things, to ideals, to, to, to,
to seeking perfection. Mm-hmm <affirmative> to seeking, uh,
to seeking a great life. I think as you go older, most people become cynical.
They give up on their ideals. Why?
Because their ideals were wrong and their ideas fail. Yeah. Right. My,
my parents were socialists when they were young, those ideas failed.
So where do you go for socialism for your ideals? Fail cynicism.
Yeah. The cynicism, which.
Is horrible. All adults, almost all adults out there are cynical. And,
and that is, that is, that is fail the idealism.
And when they look at the young people, they see their idealism. Oh well that's,
I was idealistic too. And they don't question the ideal,
well they're good ideals and they're bad ideals,
the right ideals and the wrong ideals. And uh, and,
and that's why they attributed to, to, they attributed to you.
So it's a threat to a lot of people, a lot of people who it's too late for,
for some people it's too late to change their minds. And, and, and they know it.
And, and they've, they've too invested in the, in the job in the wife, in the,
in the compromises, in the comfort.
In the comfort.
In the, and they're too invested in the comfort too, to,
to invest in a compromise, to invest in a comfort.
And they know that they shouldn't be, they know they should change.
And these young people are challenging that, and that is really,
really scary for them. And that's,
that's why they rejected without even without too much consideration.
One, one of the things Rand,
the working title for fountain head was secondhand lives.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and Rand had too definite of selfishness in that book.
One is selfishness in the sense of my life is the most important thing.
It's not the only important thing. Uh, my family would be number two friends.
They certainly are extremely high values,
but you can't have these secondary values without.
The first value, but in the context of my life, right.
Cuz your family might not be a value. Right, right, right.
You might hate your parents. Sure. The.
Point being selfishness, then there's the other kind of selfishness,
which is Peter Keating. When the villains of the book,
which is he's selfish in that he's greedy. He's looking out for number one,
but he has no values. He has no sense of character. He just wants to be wealthy.
He wants to have a beautiful wife. He wants to have a big house.
Why he couldn't tell you because other people have it and he wants to have it
more than them. His sense of reference is other people he's living secondhand.
What the problem with that is a lot of young people read Rand.
And when they start arguing online, they just start trying to talk like Rand.
Whereas Rand would be like the original, be an innovator.
If you wanna argue for objective and Rand's views, take her ideas,
articulate them in your own way.
Cuz that's a good way of showing that you understand what she thinks,
but what they end up doing is just talking like her mm-hmm <affirmative> it
sounds dated and comical and that's gonna be off putting cuz it's like Rand
wouldn't expect someone else to sound like Rand she's you know, her own person.
And.
She of course wouldn't view Keating as selfish in any sense, because,
or even greedy greed is a tricky word, but.
Or selfish. Selfish is the old school sense.
Yeah. He's selfish in the old, but, but even there, he,
it's not as if it's not as if he has some passion and he is going after passion,
no matter what I'm going, you know, light sheet steel, I'm gonna, he,
he doesn't, his passion is painting. Right. And he doesn't pursue his passion.
He pursues what his mother wants to pursue. Right. Yeah.
And he pursues money and he's,
he's completely secondhand in the sense that he follows other people's values,
not his own.